The forty - sixth annual fair of the Pymantoning County Agricultural Society was in its second day . The trotting -matches had begun , and the vast majority of the visitors had abandoned the other features of the exhibition for this supreme attraction . They clustered four or five deep along the half -mile of railing that enclosed the track , and sat sweltering in the hot September sun , on the benching of the grandstand that flanked a stretch of the course . Boys selling lemonade and peanuts , and other boys with the score of the races , made their way up and down the seats with shrill cries ; now and then there was a shriek of girls ' laughter from a group of young people calling to some other group , or struggling for a programme caught back and forth ; the young fellows shouted to each other jokes that were lost in mid-air ; but , for the most part , the crowd was a very silent one , grimly intent upon the rival sulkies as they flashed by and lost themselves in the clouds that thickened over the distances of the long , dusty loop . Here and there some one gave a shout as a horse broke , or settled down to his work under the guttural snarl of his driver ; at times the whole throng burst into impartial applause as a horse gained or lost a length ; but the quick throb of the hoofs on the velvety earth and the whir of the flying wheels were the sounds that chiefly made themselves heard .
The spectacle had the importance which multitude givers , and Ludlow found in it the effects which he hoped to get again in his impression . He saw the deep purples which he looked to see with eyes trained by the French masters of his school to find them , and the indigo blues , the intense greens , the rainbow oranges and scarlets ; and he knew just how he should give them . In the light of that vast afternoon sky , cloudless , crystalline in its clearness , no brilliancy of rendering could be too bold .
If he had the courage of his convictions , this purely American event could be reported on his canvas with all its native character ; and yet it could be made to appeal to the enlightened eye with the charm of a French subject , and impressionism could be fully justified of its follower in Pymantoning as well as in Paris . That golden dust along the track ; the level tops of the buggies drawn up within its ellipse , and the groups scattered about in gypsy gayety on the grass there ; the dark blur of men behind the barrier ; the women , with their bright hats and parasols , massed flower - like , -- all made him long to express them in lines and dots and breadths of pure color . He had caught the vital effect of the whole , and he meant to interpret it so that its truth should be felt by all who had received the light of the new faith in painting , who believed in the prismatic colors as in the ten commandments , and who hoped to be saved by tone -contrasts . For the others , Ludlow was at that day too fanatical an impressionist to care . He owed a duty to France no less than to America , and he wished to fulfil it in a picture which should at once testify to the excellence of the French method and the American material . At twenty - two , one is often much more secure and final in one 's conclusions than one is afterwards .
He was vexed that a lingering doubt of the subject had kept him from bringing a canvas with him at once , and recording his precious first glimpses of it . But he meant to come to the trotting - match the next day again , and then he hoped to get back to his primal impression of the scene , now so vivid in his mind . He made his way down the benches , and out of the enclosure of the track . He drew a deep breath , full of the sweet smell of the bruised grass , forsaken now by nearly all the feet that had trodden it . A few old farmers , who had failed to get places along the railing and had not cared to pay for seats on the stand , were loitering about , followed by their baffled and disappointed wives . The men occasionally stopped at the cattle - pens , but it was less to look at the bulls and boars and rams which had taken the premiums , and wore cards or ribbons certifying the fact , than to escape a consciousness of their partners , harassingly taciturn or voluble in their reproach . A number of these embittered women brokenly fringed the piazza of the fair-house , and Ludlow made his way toward them with due sympathy for their poor little tragedy , so intelligible to him through the memories of his own country - bred youth . He followed with his pity those who sulked away through the deserted aisles of the building , and nursed their grievance among the prize fruits and vegetables , and the fruits and vegetables that had not taken the prizes . They were more censorious than they would have been perhaps if they had not been defeated themselves ; he heard them dispute the wisdom of most of the awards as the shoutings and clappings from the racetrack penetrated the lonely hall . They creaked wearily up and down in their new shoes or best shoes , and he knew how they wished themselves at home and in bed , and wondered why they had ever been such fools as to come , anyway . Occasionally , one of their husbands lagged in , as if in search of his wife , but kept at a safe distance , after seeing her , or hung about with a group of other husbands , who could not be put to shame or suffering as they might if they had appeared singly .
II .
Ludlow believed that if the right fellow ever came to the work , he could get as much pathos out of our farm folks as Millet got out of his Barbizon peasants . But the fact was that he was not the fellow ; he wanted to paint beauty not pathos ; and he thought , so far as he thought ethically about it , that , the Americans needed to be shown the festive and joyous aspects of their common life . To discover and to represent these was his pleasure as an artist , and his duty as a citizen . He suspected , though , that the trotting - match was the only fact of the Pymantoning County Fair that could be persuaded to lend itself to his purpose . Certainly , there was nothing in the fair-house , with those poor , dreary old people straggling through it , to gladden an artistic conception . Agricultural implements do not group effectively , or pose singly with much picturesqueness ; tall stalks of corn , mammoth squashes , huge apples and potatoes want the beauty and quality that belong to them out of doors , when they are gathered into the sections of a county fair-house ; piles of melons fail of their poetry on a wooden floor , and heaps of grapes cannot assert themselves in a very bacchanal profusion against the ignominy of being spread upon long tables and ticketed with the names of their varieties and exhibitors .
Ludlow glanced at them , to right and left , as he walked through the long , barn - like building , and took in with other glances the inadequate decorations of the graceless interior . His roving eye caught the lettering over the lateral archways , and with a sort of contemptuous compassion he turned into the Fine Arts Department .
The fine arts were mostly represented by photographs and crazy quilts ; but there were also tambourines and round brass plaques painted with flowers , and little satin banners painted with birds or autumn leaves , and gilt rolling - pins with vines . There were medley - pictures contrived of photographs cut out and grouped together in novel and unexpected relations ; and there were set about divers patterns and pretences in keramics , as the decoration of earthen pots and jars was called . Besides these were sketches in oil and charcoal , which Ludlow found worse than the more primitive things , with their second - hand _chic_ picked up in a tenth-rate school . He began to ask himself whether people tasteless enough to produce these inanities and imagine them artistic , could form even the subjects of art ; he began to have doubts of his impression of the trotting -match , its value , its possibility of importance . The senseless ugliness of the things really hurt him : his worship of beauty was a sort of religion , and their badness was a sort of blasphemy . He could not laugh at them ; he wished he could ; and his first impulse was to turn and escape from the Fine Arts Department , and keep what little faith in the artistic future of the country he had been able to get together during his long sojourn out of it . Since his return he had made sure of the feeling for color and form with which his country -women dressed themselves . There was no mistake about that ; even here , in the rustic heart of the continent he had seen costumes which had touch and distinction ; and it could not be that the instinct which they sprang from should go for nothing in the arts supposed higher than mantua-making and millinery . The village girls whom he saw so prettily gowned and picturesquely hatted on the benches out there by the race-course , could it have been they who committed these atrocities ? Or did these come up from yet deeper depths of the country , where the vague , shallow talk about art going on for the past decade was having its first crude effect ? Ludlow was exasperated as well as pained , for he knew that the pretty frocks and hats expressed a love of dressing prettily , which was honest and genuine enough , while the unhappy effects about him could spring only from a hollow vanity far lower than a woman 's wish to be charming . It was not an innate impulse which produced them , but a sham ambition , implanted from without , and artificially stimulated by the false and fleeting mood of the time . They must really hamper the growth of aesthetic knowledge among people who were not destitute of the instinct .
He exaggerated the importance of the fact with the sensitiveness of a man to whom aesthetic cultivation was all-important . It appeared to him a far greater evil than it was ; it was odious to him , like a vice ; it was almost a crime . He spent a very miserable time in the Fine Arts Department of the Pymantoning County Agricultural Fair ; and in a kind of horrible fascination he began to review the collection in detail , to guess its causes in severalty and to philosophize its lamentable consequences .
III .
In this process Ludlow discovered that there was more of the Fine Arts Department than he had supposed at first . He was aware of some women who had come into the next aisle or section , and presently he overheard fragments of their talk .
A girl 's voice said passionately : " I do n't care ! I sha n't leave them here for folks to make remarks about ! I knew they would n't take the premium , and I hope you 're satisfied now , mother . "
" Well , you 're a very silly child , " came in an older voice , suggestive of patience and amiability . " Do n't tear them , anyway ! "
" I shall ! I do n't care if I tear them all to pieces . "
There was a sound of quick steps , and of the angry swirl of skirts , and the crackling and rending of paper .
" There , now ! " said the older voice . " You 've dropped one . "
" I do n't care ! I hope they 'll trample it under their great stupid hoofs . "
The paper , whatever it was , came skating out under the draped tabling in the section where Ludlow stood , arrested in his sad employment by the unseen drama , and lay at his feet . He picked it up , and he had only time to glance at it before he found himself confronted by a fiercely tearful young girl who came round the corner of his section , and suddenly stopped at sight of him . With one hand she pressed some crumpled sheets of paper against , her breast ; the other she stretched toward Ludlow .
" Oh ! will you ---- " she began , and then she faltered ; and as she turned her little head aside for a backward look over her shoulder , she made him , somehow , think of a hollyhock , by the tilt of her tall , slim , young figure , and by the colors of her hat from which her face flowered ; no doubt the deep-crimson silk waist she wore , with its petal-edged ruffle flying free down her breast , had something to do with his fantastic notion . She was a brunette , with the lightness and delicacy that commonly go with the beauty of a blonde . She could not have been more than fifteen ; her skirts had not yet matured to the full womanly length ; she was still a child .
A handsome , mild , middle - aged woman appeared beside the stormy young thing , and said in the voice which Ludlow had already heard , " Well , Cornelia ! " She seemed to make more account than the girl made of the young fellow 's looks . He was of the medium height for a man , but he was so slight that he seemed of lower stature , and he eked out an effect of distinction by brushing his little moustache up sharply at the corners in a fashion he had learned in France , and by wearing a little black dot of an imperial . His brow was habitually darkened by a careworn frown , which came from deep and anxious thinking about the principles and the practice of art . He was very well dressed , and he carried himself with a sort of worldly splendor which did not intimidate the lady before him . In the country women have no more apprehension of men who are young and stylish and good -looking than they have in the city ; they rather like them to be so , and meet them with confidence in any casual encounter .
The lady said , " Oh , thank you , " as Ludlow came up to the girl with the paper , and then she laughed with no particular intention , and said , " It 's one of my daughter 's drawings . "
" Oh , indeed ! " said Ludlow , with a quick perception of the mother 's pride in it , and of all the potentialities of prompt intimacy . " It 's very good . "
" Well , _I_ think so , " said the lady , while the girl darkled and bridled in young helplessness . If she knew that her mother ought not to be offering a stranger her confidence like that , she did not know what to do about it . " She was just going to take them home , " said the mother vaguely .
" I 'm sorry , " said Ludlow . " I seem to be a day after the fair , as far as they 're concerned . "
" Well , I do n't know , " said the mother , with the same amiable vagueness . She had some teeth gone , and when she smiled she tried to hide their absence on the side next Ludlow ; but as she was always smiling she did not succeed perfectly . She looked doubtfully at her daughter , in the manner of mothers whom no severity of snubbing can teach that their daughters when well - grown girls can no longer be treated as infants . " I do n't know as you 'd think you had lost much . We did n't expect they _would_ take the premium , a _great_ deal . "
" I should hope not , " said Ludlow . " The competition was bad enough . "
The mother seemed to divine a compliment in this indefinite speech . She said : " Well , I do n't see myself why they did n't take it . "
" There was probably no one to feel how much better they were , " said Ludlow .
" Well , that 's what _I_ think , " said the mother , " and it 's what I tell her . " She stood looking from Ludlow to her daughter and back , and now she ventured , seeing him so intent on the sketch he still held , " You an artist ? "
" A student of art , " said Ludlow , with the effect of uncovering himself in a presence .
The mother did not know what to make of it apparently ; she said blankly , " Oh ! " and then added impressively , to her daughter : " Why do n't you show them to him , Cornelia ? "
" I should think it a great favor , " said Ludlow , intending to be profoundly respectful . But he must have overdone it . The girl majestically gave her drawings to her mother , and marched out of the aisle .
Ludlow ignored her behavior , as if it had nothing to do with the question , and began to look at the drawings , one after another , with various inarticulate notes of comment imitated from a great French master , and with various foreign phrases , such as " _Bon ! Bon ! Pas mauvais ! Joli ! Chic ! _ " He seemed to waken from them to a consciousness of the mother , and returned to English . " They are very interesting . Has she had instruction ? "
" Only in the High School , here . And she did n't seem to care any for that . She seems to want to work more by herself . "
" That 's wrong , " said Ludlow , " though she 's probably right about the High School . "
The mother made bold to ask , " Where are _you_ taking lessons ? "
" I ? " said Ludlow , dreamily . " Oh ! everywhere . "
" I thought , perhaps , " the mother began , and she stopped , and then resumed , " How many lessons do you expect to take ? "
IV .
Ludlow descended from the high horse which he saw it was really useless for him to ride in that simple presence . " I did n't mean that I was a student of art in that sense , exactly . I suppose I 'm a painter of some sort . I studied in Paris , and I 'm working in New York - - if that 's what you mean . "
" Yes , " said the lady , as if she did not know quite what she meant .
Ludlow still remained in possession of the sketches , and he now looked at them with a new knot between his eyebrows . He had known at the first glance , with the perception of one who has done things in any art , that here was the possibility of things in his art , and he had spoken from a generous and compassionate impulse , from his recognition of the possibility , and from his sympathy with the girl in her defeat . Now his conscience began to prick him . He asked himself whether he had any right to encourage her , whether he ought not rather to warn her . He asked her mother : " Has she been doing this sort of thing long ? "
" Ever since she was a little bit of a thing , " said the mother . " You _might_ say she 's been doing it ever since she could do anything ; and she _ain 't_ but about fifteen , _now_ . Well , she 's going on sixteen , " the mother added , scrupulously . " She was born the third of July , and now it 's the beginning of September . So she 's just fifteen years and a little over two months . I suppose she 's too young to commence taking lessons regularly ? "
" No one would be too young for that , " said Ludlow , austerely , with his eyes on the sketch . He lifted them , and bent them frankly and kindly on the mother 's face . " And were you thinking of her going on ? " The mother questioned him for his exact meaning with the sweet unwisdom of her smile . " Did you think of her becoming an artist , a painter ? "
" Well , " she returned , " I presume she would have as good a chance as anybody , if she had the talent for it . "
" She has the talent for it , " said Ludlow , " and she would have a better chance than most -- that 's very little to say -- but it 's a terribly rough road . "
" Yes , " the mother faltered , smiling .
" Yes . It 's a hard road for a man , and it 's doubly hard for a woman . It means work that breaks the back and wrings the brain . It means for a woman , tears , and hysterics , and nervous prostration , and insanity -- some of them go wild over it . The conditions are bad air , and long hours , and pitiless criticism ; and the rewards are slight and uncertain . One out of a hundred comes to anything at all ; one out of a thousand to anything worth while . New York is swarming with girl art-students . They mostly live in poor boarding -houses , and some of them actually suffer from hunger and cold . For men the profession is hazardous , arduous ; for women it 's a slow anguish of endeavor and disappointment . Most shop-girls earn more than most fairly successful art-students for years ; most servant - girls fare better . If you are rich , and your daughter wishes to amuse herself by studying art , it 's all very well ; but even then I would n't recommend it as an amusement . If you 're poor ---- "
" I presume , " the mother interrupted , " that she would be self - supporting by the time she had taken six months ' lessons , and I guess she could get along till then . "
Ludlow stared at the amiably smiling creature . From her unruffled composure his warning had apparently fallen like water from the back of a goose . He saw that it would be idle to go on , and he stopped short and waited for her to speak again .
