CHAPTER I
HER CHILDHOOD
Rose was an unaccountable child from the start . She learned to speak early and while she did not use " baby - talk " she had strange words of her own . She called hard money " tow " and a picture " tac , " names which had nothing to do with onomatopoeia though it seemed so in some cases . Bread and milk she called " plop . "
She began to read of her own accord when four years old , picking out the letters from the advertisements of the newspapers , and running to her mother at the sink or bread - board to learn what each word meant . Her demand for stories grew to be a burden . She was insatiate , nothing but sleep subdued her eager brain .
As she grew older she read and re-read her picture books when alone , but when older people were talking she listened as attentively as if she understood every word . She had the power of amusing herself and visited very little with other children . It was deeply moving to see her with her poor playthings out under the poplar tree , talking to herself , arranging and rearranging her chairs and tables , the sunlight flecking her hair , and the birds singing overhead .
She seemed only a larger sort of insect , and her prattle mixed easily with the chirp of crickets and the rustle of leaves .
She was only five years old when her mother suddenly withdrew her hands from pans and kettles , gave up all thought of bread and butter making , and took rest in death . Only a few hours of waiting on her bed near the kitchen fire and Ann Dutcher was through with toil and troubled dreaming , and lay in the dim best-room , taking no account of anything in the light of day .
Rose got up the next morning after her mother 's last kiss and went into the room where the body lay . A gnomish little figure the child was , for at that time her head was large and her cropped hair bristled till she seemed a sort of brownie . Also , her lonely child - life had given her quaint , grave ways .
She knew her mother was dead , and that death was a kind of sleep which lasted longer than common sleep , that was all the difference , so she went in and stood by the bed and tried to see her mother 's face . It was early in the morning and the curtains being drawn it was dark in the room , but Rose had no fear , for mother was there .
She talked softly to herself a little while , then went over to the window and pulled on the string of the curtain till it rolled up . Then she went back and looked at her mother . She grew tired of waiting at last .
" Mamma , " she called , " wake up . Ca n't you wake up , mamma ? "
She patted the cold , rigid cheeks with her rough brown little palms . Then she blew in the dead face , gravely . Then she thought if she could only open mamma's eyes she 'd be awake . So she took her finger and thumb and tried to lift the lashes , and when she did she was frightened by the look of the set faded gray eyes . Then the terrible vague shadow of the Unknown settled upon her and she cried convulsively : " Mamma ! mamma , I want you ! " Thus she met death , early in her life .
After her mother 's burial Rose turned to her father more hungrily than before . She rode into the fields with him in the spring , when he went out to sow , sitting on the seeder box with the pockets of her little pink apron filled with wheat , and her sweet , piping little voice calling to the horses or laughing in glee at the swarms of sparrows . When he was plowing corn she rode on the horses , clinging like a blue-jay to the rings in the back - pad , her yellow - brown hair blowing .
She talked sagely about the crops and the weather , and asked innumerable questions . Often John could not hear her questions , which were like soft soliloquies , but she babbled on just the same .
" See the little birds , pappa John . They 's ' bout a million of 'um , ai n't they ? They 're glad spring has come , ai n't they , pappa ? They can understand each other just the same as we can , ca n't they , pappa John ? "
John Dutcher was not a talker , and he seldom answered her unless she turned her eager face to him , and her bird - like voice repeated her question . But it mattered very little to Rose . She had her father 's power of self-amusement . In case she got tired of riding about with him she brought her playthings out and established them in a corner of the fence . Her favorite game was playing horses .
Her horses were sticks of the size of canes , and of all sorts and colors . Each one had a name . How she selected them , and why she selected them out of the vast world of sticks , was a mystery to John Dutcher .
The brown stick she called Dan , the fork handle , Nellie , and the crooked stick with the big knot was Barney . She had from six to ten and she never forgot their names . Each had a string for a bridle and they all were placed in stalls , which she built with infinite labor and calculation out of twigs . She led each stick by its halter up to the manger ( a rail ) on which she had placed oats and grass . She talked to them .
" Now , Barney , whoa- whoa there now ! Do n't you kick Kit again -- now sir ! Kit , you better stand over here by Pete -- Barney , you need exercise , that 's what you need -- yessir . "
She exercised them by riding them in plunging circles about the fields , forgetting , with the quick imagination of a child , that she was doing all the hard work of the riding with her own stout , brown legs . It was a pleasure to John to have her there though he said little to her .
Often at night as he saw her lying asleep , her long lashes upon her roughened sun-burned skin , his heart went out to her in a great gush of tenderness . His throat ached and his eyes grew wet as he thought how unresponsive he had been that day . His remorseful memory went back over her eager questions to which he had not replied . Dear , sweet , restless little heart ! And then he vowed never to lose patience with her again . And sometimes standing there beside her bed his arms closed about the little mound under the quilts , and his lips touched the round , sleep - enraptured face . At such times his needy soul went out in a cry to his dead wife for help to care for his child .
He grew afraid of the mystery and danger of coming womanhood . Her needs came to him more powerfully each day .
When she began going to school with the other children the effects of her lonely life and of her companionship with her father set her apart from the boys and girls of her own age and placed her among those several years older , whom she dominated by her gravity and her audacity . She was not mischievous or quarrelsome , but she was a fearless investigator . She tested their childish superstitions at once .
When they told her that if she swore at God and shook her fist at the sky she would certainly drop dead , she calmly stepped forward and shook her little fist up at the sun and swore , while the awe -stricken children cowered like a covey of partridges .
" There ! you see _that 's_ a lie , " she said scornfully . " God ca n't kill me -- or else he do n't care . "
She went on exploding these strange superstitious fancies , which are only the survivals in civilized children of savage ancestry . She stood erect in the door of the school - house when she was eight years old , and pointed her hand at the lightning while the teacher sat cowed and weeping at her desk .
" You said I dass n't , " the little elf cried , " But I dass't , and nothing ai n't struck me yet . "
Her absolute fearlessness of the things which children shrank from , the dark , and things of the dark , made her a marked figure . The women of the Coolly thought it due to the lack of a mother 's care . They spoke to the minister about it and urged him to see Dutcher and ask him to try and do something for the child 's good .
But Dutcher simply said , " Oh , do n't bother the child about her soul . She 's all right . I do n't bother myself about those things , and what 's the use o' spoilin ' the child 's fun . If she wants to go to Sunday - school , why all right . She 'll go where she 's interested . "
" But , Brother Dutcher , the child is doing outrageous things -- heathenish , defying her God . "
" I do n't s'pose what she does will make any particular difference to God . We understand each other , Rosie and me . Do n't worry . If she does anything real bad she 'll come an ' tell me of it . _ Chk ! Chk !_ G ' wan , Barney ! " He cut the matter short by driving away into the field of corn .
He saw rushing upon him the most solemn and severe trials of a parent . Rose was a sturdy girl and promised to develop into a maiden early , and there were a hundred things which ought to be said to her which must be said by some one . He was not philosopher enough to know that she held in her expanding brain the germs of self-knowledge .
He had been passing through a running fire of questions from the child for two years , but these questions now took hold of deeper things , and they could no longer be put aside by saying , " Wait a few years and then I 'll tell you . " She would learn them elsewhere , if not from him . He braced himself for the trial , which increased in severity .
The child 's horizon was limited , but within its circle her searching eyes let nothing escape . She came to Dutcher with appalling questions .
She not only asked him , " Who made God ? " but she wanted to know how she came to be born , and a thousand other questions of the same searching nature . He saw that the day of petty fictions had gone by . The child knew that little lambs , and calves , and kittens did not grow down in the woods . She knew that babies were not brought by the doctor , and that they did not come from heaven .
" Good Lord ! " groaned her father one day , after an unusually persistent attack from her , caused by the appearance of a little colt out in the barn , " I wish your mother was here , or some woman . You do make it hard for me , Rosie . "
" How do I make it hard for you , pappa ? " was her quick new question . " O , Lord , what a young un , " he said , in deeper despair . " Come , ai n't it about time for you to be leggin ' it toward school ? Give me a rest , Rosie . But I 'll answer all your questions -- do n't ask about them things of the children -- come right to me always -- only do n't pile 'em all on me to once . "
" All right , pappa , I won't . "
" That 's a good old soul ! " he said , patting her on the back . After she had gone he sat down on the feed -box and wiped his face . " I wonder how women do explain things like that to girls , " he thought . " I 'll ask the preacher 's wife to explain it -- no , I won't . I 'll do it myself , and I 'll get her books to read about it -- good books . "
It was evidence of the girl 's innate strength and purity of soul that the long succession of hired hands had not poisoned her mind . They soon discovered , however , the complete confidence between the father and child , and knew that their words and actions would be taken straight to John as soon as night came and Rose climbed into his lap . This made them careful before her , and the shame of their words and stories came to the child 's ears only in fragments .
Dutcher concluded that he should have a woman in the house , and so sent back to Pennsylvania for his sister , lately widowed . Rose looked forward to seeing her aunt with the wildest delight . She went with her father down the valley to Bluff Siding to meet her . Bluff Siding was the only town the child knew , and it was a wonderful thing to go to town .
As they stood on the platform , waiting , her eyes swept along the great curve of the rails to the east , and suddenly , like a pain in the heart , came her first realization of distance , of the infinity of the world .
" Where does it go to , pappa ? "
" O , a long way off . To Madison , Chicago , and Pennsylvany . "
" How far is it ? Could we go there with old Barney and Nell ? "
" O , no . If we drove there it would take us days and days , and the wheat would grow up and get yellow , an' the snow come , almost , before we 'd get there . "
" O , dear ! " she sighed . " I do n't like to have it so big . Do people live all along the whole way ? "
" Yes , the whole way , and lots of big cities . "
" Big as Madison ? " Madison was her unseen measure of greatness .
" O , yes . A hundred times bigger . "
