" Unquestionably , " agreed the friend , with much the quality of firm promptness with which one would bolt a nauseous pill , or extrude an ailing oyster .
" Yet merely because Constance has been out so much longer , and therefore is much more experienced , she self -- she monopolises the attentions of the men ; you know she does , Josie . "
" Absolutely , " once more concurred Mrs. Ferguson ; and this time , though she spoke less quickly , her tone carried greater conviction . " They are -- well -- she -- she undoubtedly -- that is , she contrives -- somehow -- to eclipse , or at least overshadow them . "
" Exactly . I do n't like to think that she manages -- but whether she does or not , the results are as bad as if she did ; and thoughtlessness -- if it is only that , which I ca n't believe -- is quite as blamable as -- as more intentional scheming . "
" Then of course , " said Mrs. Ferguson , " every one knows about her mother 's fortune -- and men are so mercenary in these days . "
" Oh , Josie , I do n't like to speak of that myself , but it is such a relief to have you say it . That is the whole trouble . What sort of a chance have my poor dears , who will inherit so little compared to her wealth , and that not till -- till we are through with it -- against Constance ? I call it really shameful of her to keep on standing in their light ! "
" Have you -- Could n't you let her see -- drop a hint -- of the unconscious injury she is -- "
" That is the cruelty of my position , " moaned Mrs. Durant . " I should not hesitate a moment , but the world is so ill-natured about stepmothers that one has to be over-careful , and with daughters of my own , I 'm afraid people -- perhaps my own husband -- would think I was trying to sacrifice her to them . "
" But have you no friend you could ask to --? "
" Josie ! Would you ? " eagerly interrupted Mrs. Durant . " She will be influenced , I know , by anything you -- "
" Gracious , my dear , I never dreamed of -- of you asking me ! Why , I do n't know her in the least . I could n't , really . "
" But for my sake ? And you know her as well as -- as any one else ; for Constance has no intimates or -- "
" Do n't you see that 's it ? I 'd as soon think of -- of -- From me she would only take it as an impertinence . "
" I do n't see why everybody stands so in awe of a girl of twenty - three , unless it 's because she 's rich , " querulously sighed Mrs. Durant .
" I do n't think it 's that , Anne . It 's her proud face and reserved manner . And I believe those are the real reasons for her not marrying . However much men may admire her , they -- they -- Well , it 's your kittenish , cuddling kind of a girl they marry . "
" No ; you are entirely wrong . Doubtless it is her money , but Constance has had plenty of admirers , and if she were less self -- if she considered the interests of the family -- she would have married years ago . But she is wholly blind to her duty , and checks or rebuffs every man who attempts to show her devotion . And just because others take their places , she is puffed up into the belief that she is to go through life with an everlasting train of would - be suitors , and so enjoys her own triumph , with never a thought of my girls . "
" Why not ask her father to speak to her ? "
" My dear ! As if I had n't , a dozen times at the least , "
" And what does he say ? "
" That Constance shows her sense by not caring for the men _I_ invite to the house ! As if _I_ could help it ! Of course with three girls in the house one must cultivate dancing -men , and it 's very unfair to blame me if they are n't all one could wish . "
" I thought Constance gave up going to dances last winter ? "
" She did , but still I must ask them to my dinners , for if I do n't they wo n't show Muriel and Doris attention . Mr. Durant should realise that I only do it for their sakes ; yet to listen to him you 'd suppose it was my duty to close my doors to dancing -men , and spend my time seeking out the kind one never hears of -- who certainly do n't know how to dance , and who would either not talk at my dinners , or would lecture upon one subject to the whole table -- just because they are what he calls ' purposeful men . ' "
" He probably recognises that the society man is not a marrying species , while the other is . "
" But there are several who would marry Constance in a minute if she 'd only give any one of them the smallest encouragement ; and that 's what I mean when I complain of her being so unimpressionable . Muriel and Doris like our set of men well enough , and I do n't see what right she has to be so over-particular . "
Mrs. Ferguson rose and began the adjustment of her wrap , while saying , " It seems to me there is but one thing for you to do , Anne . "
" What ? " eagerly questioned Mrs. Durant .
" Indulge in a little judicious matchmaking , " suggested the friend , as she held out her hand .
" It 's utterly useless , Josie . I 've tried again and again , and every time have only done harm . "
" How ? "
" She won't -- she is so suspicious . Now , last winter , Weston Curtis was sending her flowers and -- and , oh , all that sort of thing , and so I invited him to dinner several times , and always put him next Constance , and tried to help him in other ways , until she -- well , what do you think that girl did ? "
Mrs. Ferguson 's interest led her to drop her outstretched hand . " Requested you not to ? " she asked .
" Not one word did she have the grace to say to me , Josie , but she wrote to him , and asked him not to send her any more flowers ! Just think of it . "
" Then that 's why he went to India . "
" Yes . Of course if she had come and told me she did n't care for him , I never would have kept on inviting him ; but she is so secretive it is impossible to tell what she is thinking about . I never dreamed that she was conscious that I was trying to -- to help her ; and I have always been so discreet that I think she never would have been if Mr. Durant had n't begun to joke about it . Only guess , darling , what he said to me once right before her , just as I thought I was getting her interested in young Schenck ! "
" I ca n't imagine . "
" Oh , it was some of his Wall Street talk about promoters of trusts always securing options on the properties to be taken in , before attempting a consolidation , or something of that sort . I should n't have known what he meant if the boys had n't laughed and looked at Constance . And then Jack made matters worse by saying that my interest would be satisfied with common stock , but Constance would only accept preferred for hers . Men do blurt things out so -- and yet they assert that we women have n't tongue discretion . No , dear , with them about it 's perfectly useless for me to do so much as lift a finger to marry Constance off , let alone her own naturally distrustful nature . "
" Well , then , ca n't you get some one to do it for you -- some friend of hers ? "
" I do n't believe there is a person in the world who could influence Constance as regards marriage , " moaned Mrs. Durant . " Do n't think that I want to sacrifice her , dear ; but she really is n't happy herself -- for -- well -- she is a stepdaughter , you know -- and so can never quite be the same in the family life ; and now that she has tired of society , she really does n't find enough to do to keep busy . Constance wanted to go into the Settlement work , but her father would n't hear of it -- and really , Josie , every one would be happier and better if she only would marry -- "
" I beg your pardon for interrupting you , mama . I thought you were alone , " came a voice from the doorway . " How do you do , Mrs. Ferguson ? "
" Oh ! " ejaculated both ladies , as they looked up , to find standing in the doorway a handsome girl , with clear-cut patrician features , and an erect carriage which gave her an air of marked distinction .
" I only stopped to ask about the errand you asked me to do when I went out , " explained the girl , quietly , as the two women hunted for something to say .
" Oh . Yes . Thank you for remembering , darling , " stammered Mrs. Durant , finding her voice at last . " Wo n't you please order a bunch of something sent to Miss Porter - - and - - and - - I 'll be very much obliged if you 'll attend to it , Constance , my dear . "
The girl merely nodded her head as she disappeared , but neither woman spoke till the front door was heard to close , when Mrs. Durant exclaimed , " How long had she been standing there ? "
" I do n't know . "
" I hope she did n't hear ! "
" I do n't think she could have , or she would have shown it more , "
" That does n't mean anything . She never shows anything outwardly . And really , though I would n't purposely have said it to her , I 'm not sure that I hope she did n't hear it -- for -- well , I do wish some one would give her just such advice . "
" My dear , it is n't a case for advice ; it 's a case for match - making , " reiterated Mrs. Ferguson , as she once more held out her hand .
Meanwhile Miss Durant thoughtfully went down the steps to her carriage , so abstracted from what she was doing that after the footman tucked the fur robe about her feet , he stood waiting for his orders ; and finally , realising his mistress 's unconsciousness , touched his hat and asked , --
" Where to , Miss Constance ? "
